Policy: Water

W_Strategy
    (a)    
    Companies should recognise their dependency and impact on water
    resources, integrate commitments to sustainable water management
    into their policies, and, where relevant, have a clear water management
    strategy.

    (b)
    Companies should take a long-term approach and understand the
    potential business, social and environmental implications of evolving
    corporate water needs, including in supply chains and products’ life
    cycles.

    (c)
    Companies should incorporate relevant water challenges, opportunities
    and sustainability considerations into investment planning and consider
    the sensitivity of their long-term business strategy to water stress and
    regulation, for example through scenario analysis. Analyses should reflect
    that water stress is region- and often asset-specific, and include local
    hydrological, environmental, social, economic and regulatory factors
    where appropriate.

    (c)
    Companies should, where relevant, consider research and development
    to reduce company water dependency, use or discharge, improve water
    quality, or deliver new processes, products and services.

    (d)    
    Companies should regularly consider whether their organisational
    structure, incentive systems, training programmes and wider company
    culture integrate sustainable business practices appropriately.
    Employees and contractors should be engaged in these efforts and made
    aware of company policies and practices.

    (e)
    Companies could consider putting in place a mechanism for third-party
    expert input into their water management strategy.

W_Risk

    (a)
    Companies should identify and incorporate water risk in a robust
    and integrated framework. Risk management efforts should include
    appropriate systems for prioritising, mitigating, monitoring and
    reporting on physical, regulatory and reputational risks.

    (b)    
    Companies should quantify the financial impacts of water risk. Applying
    a shadow price – reflecting underlying cost dimensions – for water may
    aid in the integration of certain water risks with financial risk metrics or
    into scenario analysis.

    (c)
    Companies should monitor water withdrawals, consumption and
    quality, and identify and consider relevant adaptation and mitigation
    measures to avoid or reduce risks. This could include improved water
    efficiency in production processes, improved environmental quality
    of discharge, increased water recycling practices, or reduction
    of products’ life cycle water dependency.

    (d)
    Companies should adopt, where relevant, industry standards and best
    practices in sustainable water management.

    (e)
    Companies should identify and monitor water risks in their supply
    chains, including in agriculture, implement relevant procurement
    policies for products and services, engage with relevant strategic
    suppliers, and share best practices in sustainable water management.

W_Disclose

    (a)
    Companies should disclose their water management strategy, risks,
    responses and opportunities.

    (b)    
    Companies should report in accordance with relevant sustainability
    disclosure standards.

    (c)
    Company reporting should reflect that water risks are region- and often
    asset-specific, and include co-ordinates of key installations and basinlevel
    hydrological, environmental, social, economic and regulatory
    information where appropriate. They should report proportions of total
    water withdrawals and consumption in regions with high water stress.

    (d)
    Companies should, where relevant, develop a framework to monitor
    and set relevant benchmarks, key performance indicators and targets,
    for direct and indirect company water withdrawals, consumption,
    recycling, discharge and environmental quality. They should report on
    indicators and progress against targets at a sufficient level of detail,
    including at the asset level where relevant.

    (e)
    Companies should report sufficiently granular data to internationally
    recognised reporting initiatives. Companies should be transparent
    on data reported to regulators and strive to report such data across
    operations.

    (f)
    Companies should strive to report relevant data for supply chains and
    products and services.

W_engage

    (a)
    Companies should, where relevant, have policies or guidelines for
    engaging with policy makers, regulators and relevant stakeholders on
    water management and be transparent about associated spending,
    activities and trade association memberships. They should assess
    whether the advocacy positions of trade associations align with their
    own positions.

    (b)
    If they engage with regulators, companies should publicly outline their
    position on specific water regulation relevant to their business and
    outlook. Companies should consider promotion of policies supporting
    the efficient use of water.

    (c)
    Companies should understand their social and environmental impact
    on, and the associated needs of, the communities surrounding
    their direct operations and supply chains, as well as on the users of
    their products and services. They should seek to contribute to local
    populations retaining necessary access to water.

    (d)
    Companies should consider engaging in collective river basin
    management efforts and, where appropriate, collaborate with
    communities, NGOs and other relevant organisations on procuring
    necessary data and building on-the-ground water sustainability
    programmes.