Policy: Biodivesity

    BD_Strategy
        (a) 
        
        Companies should assess their direct and indirect dependencies
        and impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems and incorporate such
        assessments into their policies.

        (b)
        Companies should understand the state of ecosystems they depend
        on for natural resources and services and assess the potential business
        implications of overexploitation or degradation. Companies should
        have a strategy to address these implications, including the business
        opportunities arising from more sustainable uses of natural resources.

        (c)
        Companies should have a policy concerning the management of critical
        habitats4 when involved in activities that may significantly impact
        ecosystems, with the ambition of no net loss of biodiversity.

        (d)
        Companies involved in agricultural value chains should have a policy
        for sustainable farming, and a plan for implementation, considering
        elements such as integrated pest management, erosion control or
        other relevant agroecological practices.
 
        (e)
        Companies should assess their direct and indirect impacts on
        biodiversity and ecosystems and have a strategy for managing these
        based on the mitigation hierarchy. They should take action to eliminate
        deforestation and peatland loss from their business activities and value
        chains by 2025 at the latest, and the conversion of other remaining
        natural ecosystems by 20305, including by adopting “no deforestation,
        no exploitation, no peat” policies where relevant.


        BD_Risk
        (a)
        Companies should identify any material physical and transition risks
        related to biodiversity and ecosystems and incorporate these into
        their risk framework, taking into account the targets of the Kunming-
        Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework.
        
        (b)
        Companies should manage their dependency on natural resources and
        seek to ensure that the ecosystems upon which they rely can sustain
        their business operations. They should engage with their value chain
        and seek circular economy solutions.

        (c)
        Companies should include biodiversity and ecosystems in their
        environmental impact assessments and apply the mitigation
        hierarchy as a framework to limit their impacts. They should adopt a
        precautionary approach where there is a risk of significant biodiversity
        and ecosystem impacts, including from pesticides, invasive species or
        products of genetic modification.
        
        (d)
        Companies should disclose their processes to identify, assess and
        manage material risks related to deforestation and other land use
        changes in their own operations or supply chains. They should adopt
        industry standards and best practices for avoiding deforestation
        and land degradation, including protection of high carbon-stock
        landscapes and high conservation value areas.
        
        (e)
        Companies involved in agricultural value chains should work with
        contract farmers and other suppliers to implement sustainable farming
        techniques and adhere to recognised independent certification
        systems that focus on improving sustainability performance for
        agricultural products.
        
        (f)
        Companies should monitor whether suppliers that deliver forest-linked
        products6 implement best practices for environmental management
        and adhere to international standards and certification systems for
        sustainable agricultural production and land management.        