Policy: Climate

C_Core

    (a)
    Board oversight: Company boards should ensure climate risks
    and opportunities are integrated into corporate strategy and risk
    management. They should be transparent on how they establish
    oversight by disclosing details of the associated governance structures,
    mechanisms and activities involving the board.

    (b)
    Climate risk disclosures: Companies should analyse and disclose the
    way in which climate risk may impact their operations, value chains and
    demand for their products.

    (c)
    Greenhouse gas reporting: Companies should report scope 1,
    scope 2 and scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with
    the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Companies should seek reasonable
    assurance of at least their scope 1 and scope 2 emissions.

    (d)
    Net zero 2050: Companies should commit to net zero by 2050 or sooner
    and align their activities with the objectives of the Paris Agreement.

    (e)    
    Interim targets: Companies should set science-based interim emission
    reduction targets that cover scope 1, scope 2 and material scope 3
    emissions, consistent with net zero by 2050. Interim targets should
    be based on region- and industry-appropriate pathways, using the
    associated absolute or intensity measure for emissions.

    (f)    
    Transition plans: Companies should implement time-bound and
    quantified transition plans, designed to deliver on their interim emission
    reduction targets, and annually disclose progress against preestablished
    and consistent KPIs.


C_strategy

    (a)    
    The Paris Agreement: Companies should acknowledge the scientific
    consensus on climate change and endorse the objectives of the Paris
    Agreement.

    (b)
    Board oversight: Company boards should ensure climate risks and
    opportunities are integrated into corporate strategy and establish
    oversight of how this is delivered. Details of the associated governance
    structures, mechanisms and activities involving the board should be
    disclosed.

    (c)
    International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) reporting:
    Companies should analyse and disclose the way in which climate risk
    may impact their operations, value chains and demand for their products.
    At a minimum, disclosures should be aligned with IFRS S28 or equivalent
    standards. This approach builds on the recommendations of the Task
    Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).

    (d)
    Greenhouse gas reporting: Companies should report scope 1, scope
    2 and scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the
    Greenhouse Gas Protocol.10 Companies can increase transparency with
    disclosure via CDP or the Net-Zero Data Public Utility (NZDPU) in addition
    to corporate disclosures.11,12 Where relevant, companies should also
    report the physical emission intensity of their products.

    (e)
    Scope 2 methodologies: When reporting scope 2 emissions, companies
    should use the location method as a primary metric.13 Where companies
    also report their scope 2 emissions using the market method, they
    should reconcile the differences, including quantifying the use of energy
    attribute certificates such as unbundled renewable energy certificates
    (RECs).

    (f)
    Assurance: At a minimum, reported scope 1 and scope 2 emissions
    should be subject to reasonable assurance by a third party, and major
    underlying assumptions, including activity data and emissions factors,
    should be disclosed. Companies should seek limited assurance of their
    broader climate disclosures.

    (g)
    Scenario analysis: To analyse their resilience to a range of future
    outcomes, including those for 1.5°C and high physical damages,
    companies should use climate scenarios, and disclose the results. For
    companies in emission intensive sectors, scenario analysis should show
    how changes in climate policy, including carbon pricing, could impact
    their operations, value chains and demand for their products.

    (h)
    Adaptation and resilience: Companies should analyse and disclose how
    increasing physical climate risk could drive the need for investments in
    adaptation and resilience in their operations and value chains, including
    the long-term viability of assets. Companies with concentrated physical
    assets should disclose location data. Companies should explain
    whether their main adaptation needs are likely to be met by government
    investment.

    (i) Industry-specific expectations
    Financed emissions: Financial services companies should report
    their financed emissions using the Partnership for Carbon Accounting
    Financials (PCAF) methodology.14

    Real estate emissions: Real estate companies should report operational
    carbon emissions from both landlord and tenant-controlled spaces, and
    embodied carbon emissions from developments.

    Avoided emissions and lifecycle analysis: To demonstrate the
    emissions benefits of their products or services, companies are
    encouraged to use lifecycle emissions and avoided emissions analysis.
    Such disclosures should be made in addition to Greenhouse Gas
    Protocol reporting. The major assumptions underpinning the calculations
    should be disclosed.

C_target

    (a)
    Net zero 2050: Companies should commit to net zero by 2050 or sooner
    and align their activities with the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
    Interim targets: Consistent with net zero by 2050, companies should set
    science-based interim emission reduction targets that cover scope 1,
    scope 2, and material scope 3 emissions.

    (b)
    Scope 2 targets: Over time, companies should prioritise securing
    renewable power purchase agreements, or developing on-site
    renewable generation, ahead of using energy attribute certificates such
    as unbundled RECs.15

    (c)
    Scope 3 targets: When setting scope 3 targets, companies should
    explain how they define the materiality of different scope 3 emissions
    categories. This should include considerations of how and where
    they can exert influence on their value chains and potential financial
    risks. Companies with combustion emissions in the use-phase of their
    products should specifically address scope 3 emissions in Use of Sold
    Products and Processing of Sold Products.

    (d)    
    Net zero pathways: Emission reduction targets should be aligned with
    region- and industry-appropriate science-based pathways, using the
    associated absolute or intensity measure for emissions. Companies
    should disclose how they consider their target pathways to be Parisaligned.Where industry appropriate guidance exists, companies are
    encouraged to submit their targets for validation by the Science Based
    Targets initiative (SBTi).

    (e)
    Industry-specific expectations
    Product mix targets: Where demand for a company’s products or
    services is likely to be impacted by climate change, companies should
    incorporate product mix change into their target setting. An example
    would be an auto company setting a product mix target for zero emission
    vehicles.

    Fossil fuel demand: For fossil fuel products, companies should plan
    for production that is consistent with climate science and expected
    demand-side changes. They should disclose reserve lives and remaining
    years of production based on current investment plans.

    Methane emissions: Where methane emissions represent a material
    portion of a company’s overall greenhouse gas emissions, such as in
    agricultural or fossil fuel production, companies should set standalone
    targets for methane in line with the Global Methane Pledge.17

    Financed emissions: Companies in financial services should set
    standalone targets for the financed emissions associated with their
    lending, investing, capital markets and insurance activities. If financing
    coal activities, they should adopt policies for how this will be phased out, including criteria for providing new loan commitments or other financial
    intermediary support.

    Real estate targets: Companies in real estate should set net zero
    emission reduction targets in line with the SBTi and Carbon Risk Real
    Estate Monitor (CRREM) energy-reduction pathways.

    AFOLU: Companies with Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use
    (AFOLU) activities within their operations and value chains should seek to
    eliminate deforestation by 2025 and conversion of natural ecosystems in
    the short term, consistent with our expectation document on biodiversity
    and ecosystems. Companies should incorporate emerging international
    best practice for measurement and target setting, particularly
    frameworks such as the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial
    Disclosures (TNFD) and Science Based Targets Network (SBTN).

C_transition

    (a)
    Decarbonisation strategy: Companies should implement and disclose
    time-bound and quantified decarbonisation strategies. Details should
    include specific abatement measures needed to reach their interim
    emission reduction targets, including internal abatement measures,
    divestments, output changes, carbon credits and contractual
    instruments such as RECs. Avoided emissions should not be included in a
    decarbonisation strategy. A sample disclosure is included in Appendix A.

    (b)
    Carbon credits: Companies can use carbon credits as a supplement to
    signal high climate ambitions but should follow the mitigation hierarchy
    and prioritise reducing GHG emissions from their own operations and
    value chains. The carbon credits should be additional and verified, with
    an increasing focus on durable removal credits over time. Companies
    should not count carbon credits towards science-based interim emission
    reduction targets and should disclose details of their use. We provide
    further details in our view on corporate use of voluntary carbon credits.

    (c)
    Carbon lock-in: To minimise the risk of carbon lock-in, companies should
    ensure that their interim targets and transition plans are consistent with
    the delivery of net zero 2050.

    (d)
    Abatement costs: When planning their decarbonisation strategy,
    emission-intensive companies should construct and analyse their
    abatement cost curve or a simplified equivalent to help quantify longterm
    decarbonisation costs beyond the interim target horizon.20

    (e)
    Procurement: For internal abatement measures, companies should
    provide an overview of the products and service they plan to procure. If
    they rely on immature climate technologies to reach their interim targets,
    the use of advance market commitments, such as those under the First
    Movers Coalition, is encouraged.

    (f)
    Adaptation and resilience: Companies with concentrated physical
    assets or heightened physical climate risk in their value chains should
    include adaptation and resilience as part of their transition plan.

    (g)
    Financial planning: Companies should allocate adequate financial
    resources to their transition plan and disclose the associated capital
    expenditure and R&D expenditure. Decarbonisation capital expenditure
    guidance should include the total and annual amounts to the interim
    target year and the amounts allocated to each specific abatement
    measure.

    (h)
    Financial analysis: Companies should analyse and disclose expected
    changes to their financial model from their decarbonisation strategy
    including operating costs and capital structure.

    (i)
    Internal carbon pricing: To ensure their investment decisions are
    consistent with their emission reduction plans, companies should
    implement internal carbon pricing mechanisms.

    (j)
    Acquisitions and divestments: Companies should consider the climate
    implications of major acquisitions or divestments, in a way that 
    prioritises the preservation of climate ambition.

    (k)
    Decarbonisation feasibility: For major emissions sources not included
    in a company’s decarbonisation strategy, companies should explain
    why they have chosen not to pursue them and the feasibility challenges
    acting as barriers to decarbonisation, including financial, technological,
    or policy hurdles.

    (l)
    Climate lobbying: Companies should align their lobbying activities
    with the objectives of the Paris Agreement and address membership of
    trade bodies or associations that is or may appear incongruent with the
    company’s climate change policy. Companies should be transparent
    about where they advocate for specific policy and legislative support.

    (m)
    Impacts and dependencies: Transition plans should consider impacts
    and dependencies with adjacent sustainability topics, such as the natural
    environment, workforces and impacted communities.21 Companies can
    refer to Norges Bank Investment Management’s expectations on human
    capital, human rights, and biodiversity and ecosystems for further details.
    Stakeholder engagement: Companies should consider their current and
    planned engagement with peers, suppliers, customers and regulators,
    and how this supports their business and execution of their climate
    plan. Companies should also consider and mitigate the impacts of their
    transition plan on workers and affected communities.

C_transparency    
    
    (a)
    Board accountability: Company boards should oversee the delivery of
    transition plans, considering the adequate use of financial and human
    resources. They should ensure that the internal delivery of the transition
    plan is compatible with the company’s public statements, targets and
    applicable regulatory regimes, to protect the company from litigation risk.
    Decarbonisation KPIs: Companies should establish the KPIs that they
    plan to use on a consistent annual basis to measure progress in delivery
    of their transition plan. At a minimum this should include the annual and
    cumulative progress made towards emission reduction targets relative to
    the chosen baseline year.

    (b)
    Annual progress reporting: Companies should disclose progress
    annually on the delivery of their net zero strategy. This should cover preestablished decarbonisation KPIs, project and investment milestones in
    their transition plan, and planned developments for the coming year.

    (c)
    Strategy update cycle: To incorporate how their strategy might need to
    adjust for technology and policy changes, companies should undertake a
    net zero strategy review and update at least every three years.

    (d)
    M&A attribution: Companies should disclose the contribution that
    mergers and acquisitions have made to their reported emissions on
    a year-on-year basis. In the event of major mergers and acquisitions,
    reported emissions could be restated to adjust target baselines for
    emission reductions.

    (e)
    Remuneration: Companies should demonstrate how their remuneration
    and broader performance frameworks align with delivery of interim
    targets and transition plans. Where climate metrics are used in incentive
    schemes, they should be measurable, stretching and transparent, with a
    clear link to strategy.

    (f)
    Say On Climate: Where boards seek approval of their climate strategy
    through a Say On Climate vote, they should include detailed information
    on targets set and supporting plans that demonstrate the likelihood of
    delivery. Such votes do not supersede the board’s responsibility for
    ongoing oversight of climate change strategy. Annual votes are not
    necessary, unless a material change to the strategy is envisaged.